viii TO THE READER.

read at all. His wit is of that peculiarly pointed and
brilliant kind which must be felt to he appreciated—it is
wit in the very highest and most perfect definition 01 11
A single word at the end 01 00 epigram, perhaps, con·
taine the whole point of the thing3 01 0 double ementire,
ora turn παρὰ προσδοκίαν, different from what you though
was to come,¹ gives the colour and expression to the epi
gram. 01 000100, those minda (and there are such)
which do 001 appreciata wit, may find more genial exer-
cise than in reading Martial. But it is as an elegiae poet
that I particularly wish to commend to all the study 01
Martial. Ι1 Latin verse-writiug is to hold its place in
00110010, no model can be found superior in elegance and
versatility to Martial. Although fun is his liking, pathos
is his forte. Many 01 his epigrams breatha the most
exquisite tones of sentiment and affection. A perfect
master 01 latinity, he could describe the dishes 010

'Roman dinner, the follies 01 0 Roman fop‚ the furniture J
01 0 bath, 01 the picturasque site 01 0 11110, the decease
01 a favourite verna, or 1110 10010 01 0 mother over her ¹

infant’s grave, with equal reality and felicity 01 expres· ’

sion. His chief weakness was 000 that he had in common

111111 nearly every Roman poet under the empire-abject l

servility and fulsome flattery 01 the man ou the im·
perial throne, whom he calls his ‘lord and his god ⁸.'
Living‚ however, in the reign 01 Domitian, 110 had the

excuse 010 kind 01 necessity. Nona were then 0010 ;
who did not flatter3 every man 01 0010 purchased his life ’

⁸ Ep. 219. 1, ‘edictum domini deique nostri:

 

